In this video, we're
going to look at
sorting and filtering
data in a table.
Now that Zara has the data all
set up very nicely in the table,
she'd actually like
to start getting
some information
out of this data.
The first thing she'd
like to know is,
which was the highest
invoice amount paid?
One simple way of solving
this problem is to sort
the data by amount.
If we come to the amount
column at the top,
you see an Auto Filter button,
and if we click on that,
it gives us a selection of
options for sorting
and filtering.
We are going to click "Sort
Largest to Smallest".
It has sorted not just
the amount column,
but the entire table,
and we can now see
the invoice that was
the most expensive.
The next thing Zara
wants to know is,
what was the earliest
invoice for Melbourne?
So this time we're
going to need to sort
by location and date.
We are going to come to
the Location first and
we're going to say "Sort A to Z",
which will bring
Melbourne to the top.
But now, when we come and
sort by Invoice Date,
we will lose our sort on
location if we use the
Auto Filter buttons.
Fortunately, we have
another option.
Make sure you've
clicked somewhere in
the table and now come
up to your data tab.
We're going to the
sort and filter group,
click on the "Sort" button.
We already have a
sort by location.
So we just need to
add another level,
and our second level
will be invoice date.
We do want to sort oldest to
newest because we want
the first invoice date,
and we're going to click "OK".
We have retained our
sort by location,
but it is now sorted by
invoice date within location.
So that is how we can
create a more complex sort.
Zara would next like to focus on
just the invoices that
we issued in February.
For this shall be better
off filtering the data and
the Auto Filter buttons
we have already
seen can be used to
filter data as well.
So we're going to come to
our Auto Filter button,
click the "Dropdown", and
there are all the values
that appear in this dataset.
We are going to unselect all,
choose just February,
and say "OK".
Two things to point out,
the sort has not been affected.
If you have a look at
our Auto Filter buttons,
it is still sorted by
location and invoice date,
and they both have
a little up arrow.
It has also been filtered to
only show the February data.
So sorts and filters can run
alongside each other without
interfering in any way.
The other thing worth noting
is that the total row is
now showing us just the
totals for the February data.
So they will adjust to show
totals for the visible cells.
Now, to clear a filter,
you come back to the
Auto Filter button,
click the "Dropdown", and "Clear
Filter From Invoice Month".
Zara would now like to
see all the invoices that
was sent in March that
were over a $1,000.
So this time we're going
to add two filters.
We'll start with
invoice month again.
So going to click the
dropdown and choose
"March" this time.
But now I'm going to come to
the Amount and click
the dropdown.
Now, I don't want to start
unselecting everything
that's under a 1,000.
Fortunately, we don't have to.
If we come to Number Filters,
we get a fantastic array
of very rich options.
So we could just get the top 10,
the above average, but what
we want is a greater than.
So I going to choose
"Greater Than",
type in 1,000 and say "OK".
Unlike the sort, when we've
added another filter,
it does not replace
the first one.
It has kept the original filter,
so you can build up
quite complex filters
just by compounding them,
and we can see all
of the invoices for
March that are over $1,000.
When you have multiple filters,
to clear each of them
individually would be
quite time consuming.
So another option
is to come back up
to our Data tab and
choose "Clear".
That we'll clear all the
filters from within this table.
Now, everything we've
looked at so far,
you could have done in
a normal range as well.
But what we're going to look
at next is only available
if you're working with
the table and it's
called a slicer.
So we're going to click
somewhere into our table,
and we are going to come
up to our Table Design,
and we're going to find
the Insert Slicer button.
Now, slicer is really just
another type of filters,
but it's very intuitive and makes
interacting with the data far
simpler and a bit of fun.
So we can click
"Insert the Slicer",
and you can add as many
slicers as you have columns.
But we'll just have to add one
for location and one for month,
and then we'll say "OK".
Now, our two slices
have been added.
At the moment, they're
sitting on top of the data,
so we're going to move them.
But first we're going
to resize them.
Now, to resize them
both simultaneously,
if you hold your shift key
down and click on the second one,
you'll see them now
both highlighted.
You can either drag any
of the resize handles,
which are the little
bubbles around the edges,
or if you want to be more exact,
you'll notice we now have a
slicer ribbon that's showing.
We can come and specify an
exact height and exact width.
Click away for a moment
to unselect the slices.
Now, to move them,
we just click and drag them
to where we actually
want them to be.
I'm just going to put them
here on the right of the table.
Coming back to our slicer ribbon,
there are a few useful options.
One of them is our slices styles.
If I click the dropdown,
I can add some styling to each of
my slices to make
them a little nicer.
But now let's see how
they actually work.
Let's say I wanted to see all of
my invoices for April in Sydney.
I click on "April" and I
click "Sydney", too easy.
To clear a filter
from the slicer,
you just click on the
top right-hand corner,
the clear filter icon,
and it's removed.
So we've seen how easy it is to
sort and filter data in a table,
and how we have this
fantastic additional option
of using slices.
In the next video,
we're going to start
looking at performing
calculations with data in tables.